= Abstract tryplex toolkit =

The context of the tryplex toolkit for team creation.
tryplex is driven by the transformation of innovation within networks. We see how Open Source discovers new territories, structures, tools and rules for the creation of ideas. This challenges academic and business players within the creative industries to reinvent themselves.


tryplex enables the design and production of an exhibition with inflatable exhibits. Such exhibits may be produced on the very spot, be easily transported and have a playful look. As equipment tryplex has a large mobile plotter that normally would be used by sailmakers. With this the patterns for our inflatable designs are drawn on plastic films of all kinds. The plotter can use very thick felt-tip pens useful for decoration. A plastic welding machine helps transforming these plots into inflatables.


As an interface for interaction with the audience tryplex relies on kinect technology to transform the lonely process of creation into a dynamic, expressive and public event. The tryplex toolkit for collaborative design acts as the perfect tool for learning how to provoke a network towards innovation. This experiment in applied sociology will be analyzed and reported upon at the coins11 conference in september. This conference about "Collaborative Innovation Networks" is organized by HyperWerk.


tryplex is a consortium of several design academies and is managed by the institute for postindustrial design HyperWerk, Basel, Switzerland. From march 11 tryplex presents its shop for collaborative innovation in many european artschools to open them up to the age of teamcreation. During the coming month tryplex will be be shown at festivals and conferences such as DMY Berlin, Eunique, Parcours du Design Strasbourg, coins11, ISMAR, Shift and Ars Electronica.


The swarm of tryplex belongs to all partners involved. The tools and designs of tryplex with source code and patterns will be in the public domain. The open source toolkit for team creation is evolving dynamically. As head of software development for the tryplex toolkit acts the interaction designer Sebastian Kox from the dutch agency oneseconds, who has developed the general outline of the toolkit during two kinect workshops he has been teaching in HyperWerk in the last couple of weeks.