#summary Swiss Institute for Postindustrial Design

= Introduction =

Within the interdisciplinary and project oriented HyperWerk students learn how to approach seemingly overwhelming problems and how to get surprising results through exchange with the world. 


= Details =
<br><br>
*Some facts on HyperWerk*

<br>* 100 persons
<br>* 1993 HyperStudio, 1999 HyperWerk
<br>* Fulltime bachelor studies (3 years)
<br>* Each year there are 7 modules of 5 weeks each
<br>* Each year we look at a new topic with new partners
<br>* 1600 square meters (plus 8000 in France)
<br><br>
*Postindustrial Design?*
<br>* Postindustrial Design applies technology, design and management with the purpose of using and influencing the energies of social transformation.
<br>* Postindustrial Design improves the strategies and tools for interaction in education, leisure and business. 
<br>* Postindustrial Design qualifies for the management of interaction and for the design of processes within and for dynamically changing circumstances.
<br><br>
*Acting as our own testbed*
* Two promises for new students: 
<br> 1) We will transform our aims, questions, methods, structures, rituals and tools radically during the course of your studies. 
<br> 2) You will be expected to participate in this act of permanent creation.
<br><br>
* Core business: Information society has transformed education into a core business to be explored and exploited; HyperWerk positions itself as the testbed to investigate innovative means for cooperative learning processes. To participate in this experience has become our main educational promise and purpose.
<br><br>
*answers to a question*
* Each year HyperWerk defines itself afresh through the definition of a new problem to be solved.
* The problem always will be found and defined by the freshmen during their first year.
* During their second year HyperWerk puts together an international team of external institutions especially suitable for finding answers to the problem.
<br><br>
*Hyper Strategies*
* Core competence: Specialize in not specializing
* Ask big questions: Be in need of other people and views
* Cultivate cooperation: Between teams, institutions, cultures
* Share the load: Don’t compete – delegate whatever you can
* Sell your problem: Become an educational lab of change
* Act anticyclic: Differ, if you have no idea what else to do
* Use what happens: Do not insist – be open to surprise
<br><br>
*Who should study with us?*
* Attitude: Rebellious personalities with strong heads and perseverance. They should be willing to gain and share their technological, economical, social and competencenes within interdisciplinary and project oriented teams. 
* Entry conditions: To have produced something to be proud of, a high level of social intelligence and no fear of technology.
* Decision time: Three days of assessment 


http://hyperwerk.ch