=Installing Xcode, Libtool, Macports, LibUSB, OpenNI, primesense NITE, avin2/sensorkinect, qcOSC=


This is the fast route to install OSCeleton to use with Quartz Composer. The installation should take 1 or 2 hours to complete.<br>
For this to work I've used the processing sample to reroute the osc messages into a format that quartz could read.<br>
In this setup I'm still using the 11/1/2010 build of OSCeleton, it seems to be the most reliable version for osx at the moment. There's a <a href="https://github.com/Sensebloom/OSCeleton" target="_new">newer version</a> (with QC OSC support!) but I still get segmentation errors sometimes and jerky knee/feet data with that version. When there's a more stable build of OSCeleton I'll update this page and the source.
<br><br>
*Download and install this:*<br>
Xcode (get a membership first, it's free)<br>
<a href="http://developer.apple.com/devcenter/mac/index.action">http://developer.apple.com/devcenter/mac/index.action</a><br>
<a href="https://developer.apple.com/ios/download.action?path=/ios/ios_sdk_4.2__final/xcode_3.2.5_and_ios_sdk_4.2_final.dmg">https://developer.apple.com/ios/download.action?path=/ios/ios_sdk_4.2__final/xcode_3.2.5_and_ios_sdk_4.2_final.dmg</a>

<br><br>
*Macports*<br>
<a href="http://distfiles.macports.org/MacPorts/MacPorts-1.9.2-10.6-SnowLeopard.dmg">http://distfiles.macports.org/MacPorts/MacPorts-1.9.2-10.6-SnowLeopard.dmg</a>

<br><br>
*Libtool*<br>
open the terminal and type:<br>
sudo port install libtool<br>
if it doesn't work, restart your terminal program and try again<br>
<br>
If during the install it gives this error:<br>
Error: db46 requires the Java for Mac OS X development headers.<br>
Error: Download the Java Developer Package from:<br>
Error: Target org.macports.configure returned: missing Java headers<br>
Error: Failed to install db46<br>
*Then Install this package first:*
<a href="https://connect.apple.com/cgi-bin/WebObjects/MemberSite.woa/wa/getSoftware?bundleID=20719" target="_new">https://connect.apple.com/cgi-bin/WebObjects/MemberSite.woa/wa/getSoftware?bundleID=20719</a><br>
The latest OSX doesn't include the Java for Mac OS X development headers annymore standard.
<br><br>

*LibUSB*<br>
In the terminal type:<br>
sudo port install libusb-devel +universal<br>
Download the 'OpenNI Unstable Build for MacOSX 10.6 Universal x86/x64 (32/64-bit) v1.0.0.25' from: <a href="http://www.openni.org/downloadfiles/openni-binaries/20-latest-unstable">http://www.openni.org/downloadfiles/openni-binaries/20-latest-unstable</a> and expand the files.<br>
In the terminal go to the OpenNI directory (the easy way: type 'cd ' and drag and drop the directory from the finder and press enter) and type:;sudo sh install.sh<br>
Download the 'PrimeSense NITE Unstable Build for for MacOSX 10.6 Universal x86/x64 (32/64-bit) v1.3.0.18' from: <a href="http://www.openni.org/downloadfiles/openni-compliant-middleware-binaries/33-latest-unstable">http://www.openni.org/downloadfiles/openni-compliant-middleware-binaries/33-latest-unstable</a> and expand the files.

<br><br>
Now in the terminal go to the NITE directory (the easy way: type 'cd ' and drag and drop the directory from the finder and press enter) and type:<br>
sudo sh install.sh<br>
use 0KOIk2JeIBYClPWVnMoRKn5cdY4= as licence key

<br><br>
*Download the avin2/sensorkinect drivers at:*<br>
<a href="https://github.com/avin2/SensorKinect">https://github.com/avin2/SensorKinect</a> and expand the files.<br>
Navigate to the avin2/bin folder and expand the 'SensorKinect-MacOSX-5.0.0.tar.bz2' file.<br>
In the terminal, go to the avin2/bin/SensorKinect-MacOSX-5.0.0 folder and type:<br>
sudo sh install.sh<br>
Download and unpack the processing applet, OSCeleton 11/1/2010 osx build and QC example <a href="dev/qcosceleton.zip">QCosceleton.zip</a>

  <br><br><br>
*Download and install qcOsc:*<br>
<a href="http://hexler.net/software/qcosc">http://hexler.net/software/qcosc</a>
<br><br>
*Download and install the kineme structure maker:*<br>
http://kineme.net/release/StructureTools/01<br><br>

If you've completed installation procedure, and it's working it's time to play!

=Running=

First of all, *Quartz Composer should be in 32-bit mode*. To do this, locate the Quartz Composer app in the Developer/Applications folder and press CMD+I when selected. Now select 32-bit mode.

*To run*<br>
Connect the kinect<br>
Open a terminal window and drag and drop osceleton from the 'OSCeleton and sendOSC' folder to the terminal window *(opening from the finder doesn't work!!)* and press enter

<br><br>
Start the  application sendosc from the 'OSCeleton and sendOSC' folder by double clicking<br><br>
open '01 01s_single_skeleton' from the 'QC' folder in quartz composer<br><br>
http://www.oneseconds.com/dev/images/calibrationpose.png<br><br>
To calibrate the kinect should have a clear view and you have to stand in front of it with both arms stretched and the upper-arms at 90 degrees. After a second or so it should work and you can move freely!<br>
If it fails, reposition yourself a bit more to the front/back/left and try again<br><br>

It's best to open en play around with the examples in the numbered order, so you'll get an idea of how all patches work.<br><br>

To install the macro's in your library place them in the /library/graphics/Quartz Composer Patches/ folder. Quit and restart QC to activate them.<br><br>


QCosc can't open the same port twice so when you open a second composition it gives an error: 'Error opening socket on specified port. Please choose a different port.'.<br>
Quit and restart QC and open the composition again, and it'll work. Once a new version of OSCeleton will be around this error will be gone.
<br><br><br>

=For questions, error's suggestions, please report to the [http://groups.google.com/group/tryplex-kinect-toolkit discussion group!].=
<br><br><br>
=Common errors people encountered=

*Segmentation fault*<br>
either you're using the latest osceleton build (this error pops up now and then, but in between it works). Or the camera is used by another application, close any open programs and the terminal, disconnect and reconect the kinect. If it still fails, try reinstalling from the begin.
<br><br>

*Image not found/bus error*<br>
Maybe the camera is used by another application, close any open programs and the termincal, disconnect and reconnect the kinect. Or libusb is not installed (correctly) uninstall and reinstall by opening a new terminal window and type: sudo port uninstall libusb-devel and then:<br>
sudo port install libusb-devel +universal<br>
Restart your terminal program and try again. If it still fails, try reinstalling from the begin.

*Quartz composer closes/crashes when opening an example*<br>
Maybe Quartz isn't in 32-bit mode yet. Locate the Quartz Composer app in the Developer/Applications folder and press CMD+I when selected. Now select 32-bit mode.